hey YouTube how's it going it's Quinn's
ania and welcome to you tutorial number
three and in this tutorial we are going
to start taking a look at certain things
that we can put in the body of our
webpage okay so the first few things
that we're going to talk about in this
tutorial are the line breaks paragraphs
and headers okay so if you guys watch
the last tutorial you probably saw this
and you thought okay well we can just go
ahead and put any text in the body like
I'll just go ahead and I'll write some
paragraphs out here so this could be
paragraph 1 this paragraph 1 and you
think okay well I can break down two
lines and this could be paragraph two
and then we'll write another story over
here or whatever and then you think okay
cool I'm going to go ahead and save this
and I should get three nice paragraphs
printed out in the browser but
unfortunately that's not the case okay
so if I go ahead then I launch this in
Firefox you can see that I've got all
three things printed out on the screen
but they all appeared in one line what
the heck is going on here well let me
explain it to you this way
HTML is actually whitespace insensitive
so it doesn't really matter how much
space we leave in between yeah I mean I
could put in a hole what is that like
probably 20 inches or something and when
I go back and I click refresh nothing's
changed okay so that's why we use these
things called tags okay they basically
tell HTML how to mark up the text inside
of them okay so to break down one line
what we do is we use this break tag so
that is BR with a forward slash just
like that and if I want to break down
another line then I go ahead and I put
one there as well okay so now when I
save this and I go back to Firefox and
click refresh you can see we've got this
on line one this on line 2 and line 3 ok
so they're all on their own separate
lines but that's actually just how to
break down a line so this is the
equivalent of hitting enter on your
keyboard but if you guys actually want
to have paragraphs and paragraphs have
spaces in between these two lines then
we have to go ahead and we use a
different tag called the paragraph tag
so to do that you're just going to go
ahead and put in a smaller than and
greater than sign with a P and same
thing on this side as well okay so that
is the start of one of our paragraphs
and then this is the end of that
paragraph okay so we'll go ahead and
we'll do that a couple times
ending P and we'll start this P over
there and and why P over there ha ha
that was sounded kind of wrong but hey
we'll go back and click refresh and now
as you can see we've got these three
pretty cool paragraphs all printed out
nicely on the screen with space in
between them
okay so that's quite cool we've covered
how to actually break down one line and
we've also covered how to make different
paragraphs so let's take a look at how
to actually make headers on the web page
okay now we actually get six different
kinds of headers by default okay and
they are actually named h1 just like
that right down until h6 so we've got h1
h2 h3
out of habit I put a closing tag h4 h5
and h6 not H 56 just h6 okay and
obviously when you have to go ahead and
end these as well so I think what I'm
going to do is just copy that paste
paste paste paste paste okay so one two
three four five okay and we can go ahead
and just type some stupid stuff in here
to see what all these headers come out
looking like so this would be the
biggest header h1 is obviously the
biggest and then h6 is going to be the
smallest and a somewhere around h3
that's almost the same size as like the
default text what might be h4 so that
would be like a medium header
as the text will test text whatever will
have a few typos in yet h2 can just say
tomatoes because I have run out of
things to type and h5 can be fears is my
favorite champion ten points for whoever
guesses UEFA's is let's go ahead and
save this and now when we go back to
Firefox again and click refresh you can
see we've got all six headers print it
out on our web page
starting from h1 being the biggest and
h6 being really really small that you
can't even see it
okay so those are the different headers
that we have available to us in HTML but
we can change these up a little bit
which we will learn about later on in
the series but for now that's how to
make a header in HTML so thank you very
much guys don't forget to subscribe
please feel free to leave a comment like
or share the video it's really going to
help my channel grow and I'll see you
guys in the next video